doc/index.rst, before:

.. LISA documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Dec 13 14:20:00 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

LISA API Documentation
==============================================

LISA - "Linux Integrated System Analysis" is a toolkit for interactive analysis
and automated regression testing of Linux kernel behaviour. To get started with LISA:

- See the README on the project's `Github home page`__ for an overview.
- Check out the project's `Github Wiki`__ for some guides to installation
  and setup.
- Once you have LISA running, take a look at the tutorial and example notebooks
  included with the installation.

__ https://github.com/ARM-software/lisa
__ https://github.com/ARM-software/lisa/wiki

This site contains documentation for LISA's APIs. For some parts of LISA, API
documentation is a work-in-progress. Where the API documentation is lacking, see
the example/tutorial notebooks provided with LISA, or just dive in and read the
code. Contributions to LISA and its documentation are very welcome, and handled
via Github pull requests.

.. _Readme:

Contents:

.. TODO: due to our slightly weird package structure the index here is wildly
   nested where it needn't be.

.. toctree::

  modules

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`


Building this documentation
==============================
- Install ``sphinx-doc``
- From the root of the LISA source tree: ``source init_env && make -C doc/ html``
- Find the HTML in ``doc/_build/html``

Commit message:

doc: Add documentation for kernel tests
Only the tests are properly documented now, but since we're going move
stuff around let's not bother with it... Yet

The end goal is to have something neat and tidy like
https://devlib.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

doc/index.rst, after:

.. LISA documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Dec 13 14:20:00 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

LISA API Documentation
==============================================

LISA - "Linux Integrated System Analysis" is a toolkit for interactive analysis
and automated regression testing of Linux kernel behaviour. To get started with LISA:

- See the README on the project's `Github home page`__ for an overview.
- Check out the project's `Github Wiki`__ for some guides to installation
  and setup.
- Once you have LISA running, take a look at the tutorial and example notebooks
  included with the installation.

__ https://github.com/ARM-software/lisa
__ https://github.com/ARM-software/lisa/wiki

This site contains documentation for LISA's APIs. For some parts of LISA, API
documentation is a work-in-progress. Where the API documentation is lacking, see
the example/tutorial notebooks provided with LISA, or just dive in and read the
code. Contributions to LISA and its documentation are very welcome, and handled
via Github pull requests.

.. _Readme:

Contents:

.. TODO: due to our slightly weird package structure the index here is wildly
   nested where it needn't be.

.. TODO: Move wiki to here, wirte a proper module doc, proove Riemann's hypothesis

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   tests


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`


Building this documentation
==============================
- Install ``sphinx-doc``
- From the root of the LISA source tree: ``cd doc && make html``
- Find the HTML in ``doc/_build/html``
